#summary changes in the TRALE system made for the SLD

This page lists the changes made to the TRALE system made for the benefit of trale-sld. More changes may be required in the future.

= interp.pl =

cf. http://code.google.com/p/trale-sld/source/browse/trunk/trale/debugger/interp.pl.diff

The changes consist in providing 12 new hooks that clients can implement to get notified of the progress of the parsing process. trale-sld's implementation of these hooks is in tralesld_hooks.pl.

{{{
announce_parse_begin_hook(+Words)
}}}
Called with the list of words at the beginning of a parsing process.

{{{
announce_parse_end_hook
}}}
Called at the end of the parsing process.

{{{
announce_abort_hook.
}}}
Called when the user aborts the parsing process.

{{{
announce_solution_found_hook(+Words,+FS,+Residue,+Index)
}}}
Called with the list of words, the root FS of the solution, the residue, and the index of the top chart edge when a solution is found. This hook will become obsolete once trale-sld is modified to properly use the {{{portray_cat/5}}} hook.

{{{
announce_step_hook(+Command,+Line,+Goal,+StepID)
}}}
Called before entering a step through the call port for the first time (not when a step is Retried). `StepID` is a unique integer that identifies the step.

{{{
announce_call_hook(+StepID,+Command,+Line,+Goal)
announce_exit_hook(+StepID,+Command,+Line,+Goal)
announce_fail_hook(+StepID,+Command,+Line,+Goal)
announce_finished_hook(+StepID,+Command,+Line,+Goal)
announce_redo_hook(+StepID,+Command,+Line,+Goal)
}}}
Called at the respective port of a step.

{{{
announce_edge_added_hook(+N,+Left,+Right,+RuleName)
}}}
Called when an edge is added to the chart.

{{{
announce_edge_retrieved_hook(+Number)
}}}
Called when an edge is retrieved from the chart.

{{{
get_reply_hook(-Code)
}}}
Called to get the next debugger command from the GUI. If not implemented, then a command is obtained from the keyboard using {{{get_code/1}}}.

= ghooks.pl =

cf. http://code.google.com/p/trale-sld/source/browse/trunk/trale/ghooks.pl.diff

{{{grale_write_chars/1}}} and {{{grale_nl/0}}} were modified to call tralesld's hooks {{{tralesld_grale_message_chunk/2}}} and {{{tralesld_grale_message_end/2}}} instead of writing to a socket if the predicate {{{redirect_grale_output_to_tralesld/2}}} succeeds.

Added suport for marking substructures as "different". A substructure {{{FS}}} where {{{different(FS)}}} is mapped to {{{true}}} in {{{HDIn}}} is marked.